Now, regarding the logic
in that JavaScript file,
as mentioned before, it, of course, is important
to have some JavaScript knowledge
but for this course,
we'll stick to basic code so you will be able
to follow along without that knowledge.
Now, what I'll do in this file
is I'll create a so-called function called run
and I'll execute it right thereafter.
This is technically not required
and the name also doesn't have to be run.
You just see it in a lot of actions
and it's therefore a pattern I also use here.
Ultimately, this function will be executed right
when this file is being executed,
so you could also put your code right into this file
without this function
but here I'll use the function,
which also allows us to, for example,
turn it into a async function,
which is a more advanced feature
and not too important here.
But with that we'll put the main code
inside that run function here,
and what I wanna do here to start simple
and keep things simple for a start
is I just wanna output some info message.
So basically, the equivalent to echo something.
But we can't use echo here
because that's not JavaScript code.
Well, if we wanna send a message to GitHub Actions
and its log file here,
we have to use a special function
provided by GitHub Actions.
And to do that, I'll open my terminal
and navigate into the github/actions folder
and then there into the deploy-s3-javascript folder
and run npm init -y here.
For this command to succeed,
you must have Node.js installed on your system
and you can simply install
the latest version from nodejs.org
if you wanna follow along.
That will unlock the npm command
and you will be able to run npm init -y.
And this is important because as our next step,
we're going to install some specific dependencies
that we can use in our JavaScript actions.
And these dependencies are the @actions/core,
@actions/github,
and @actions/exec dependencies.
These dependencies are actually all part
of the Actions toolkit provided by GitHub Actions,
an official set of JavaScript packages you can use
in your JavaScript actions.
These are various packages that can be installed
that provide various pieces of functionality
that can be used in your own JavaScript actions.
That's why I'm installing these three packages
into this action folder here
by running npm install inside of that action folder.
And this will now add these actions as entries
in my package.json file,
which manages the dependencies of this project.
And it adds the node_modules folder here,
which contains the actual package code.
And now in main.js, we can import those packages
with the specific import syntax by Node.js
by, for example, importing the core package, like this.
And that can be repeated for the github package
and the exec package.
Now, we don't need the exec package yet
and we'll also dive into the github package
a little bit later
but the core package gives us access
to various utility methods and features
that we can use in our JavaScript action code.
For example, it has the notice method,
which we can use to log a message
to the GitHub Actions workflow log.
For example here, we could say Hello
from my custom JavaScript Action!
And this will print this message to the log.
And right now, that's actually the only thing I wanna do.
With that done, we can use this custom action
in our workflow just as we used
the other custom action before.
And here I'll add a brand new job
called information on the same level as deploy
and build and test, of course.
And this job does not depend on the other jobs.
It should run in parallel instead,
still on ubuntu-latest though.
And then here I'll just add one single step,
which I'll name run custom action,
and here I use the uses keyword to use my custom action.
And just as before, we must grab the path
to the action that should be used,
which in this case is, of course, .github/actions/
and then the name of this folder here.
And that will now use this custom action
that should trigger this main.js file
and should therefore log this message.
Now back here in the root project folder,
we can add our files and stage them
and create a new commit,
added first custom js action.
And push this.
And what's really important before I push this
is that here this node_modules folder
is not ignored.
If I had such a node_modules folder
on my root project level,
it would be ignored thanks to this gitignore line
but the nested node_modules folder here
won't be ignored because your custom JavaScript actions
must include all the code and all the dependencies
that are required to run this action successfully.
GitHub Actions will not download
and install dependencies
when it encounters a custom JavaScript action.
Instead it expects that all the code is available
that's needed to run this custom JavaScript code
and that includes the code for third-party actions.
That's why this is also committed
so that this package code is available
when it's needed right away.
And with that, I'll push this to GitHub
and there a new workflow run is started.
And here in the information job,
we should see our custom action being executed
and I get an error.
I get an error that it can't find action.yml.
Now, why is that?
This is an error you can sometimes get
when you're building custom actions.
It's quite common to run into.
And why are we getting this error?
I mean, we clearly have a action.yml file here
for this custom action.
Well, yes, we have the file
but in that job
where I used a custom action,
I only have that custom action step.
I never check out my repository code.
I never get the code
that includes the custom action definition.
And that is required in order to use the custom action
because it's a local action stored in this repository.
If this would be an action stored in some other repository,
we could use it without checking out the code first.
But here since it's part of this repository,
we must add an extra step here
where we do check out the code
so that the action code is available
before we try to use it.
And with that, we can create a new commit.
Check out code,
and push this, and now this action
should execute successfully.
So let's evaluate that new workflow run
that's being started here
and let's take a look at the information job.
And it still fails here
but this time it's some dependency error,
some missing module.
And the reason for this missing module file
is that I still have an error
in my gitignore file.
I'm ignoring all files that are inside of some dist folder.
Turns out that in this node_modules folder
in my action folder
for this uuid dependency,
which this error message is about,
I ignore the dist folder
and therefore, it's part of my local project here
but not of the Git and GitHub repositories.
To fix this problem, I should make sure
that only the root-level dist folder is ignored
by adjusting this gitignore line like this.
And with that done,
this dist folder here should be included
and therefore now if we create another new commit,
I can say added extra files
and push these and now we're including all the files
that are needed to run this action.
And that's really important
because as you see, it's a common gotcha
to accidentally remove files
that are needed to run the action
but as mentioned before,
all the code that's needed by the action
must be part of the project repository.
GitHub Actions will not start installing
any missing dependencies for you.
That's not going to happen.
But with that, it did now execute this custom action
and we see our log message here.
So that's our first basic JavaScript action.
Now let's create a more useful one,
which really does what the name suggests:
an action that will deploy code to AWS S3.